Evaluation Rubric


Data understanding  (10%)
All data quality issues are correctly identified and reported. 
Wherever required, the meanings of the variables are correctly interpreted and written either in the comments or text.


Data Cleaning and Manipulation (20%)
Data quality issues are addressed in the right way (missing value imputation, outlier treatment and other kinds of data redundancies, etc.). 
If applicable, data is converted to a suitable and convenient format to work with using the right methods.
Manipulation of strings and dates is done correctly wherever required.


Data analysis (40%)
The right problem is solved which is coherent with the needs of the business. The analysis has a clear structure and the flow is easy to understand.
Univariate and segmented univariate analysis is done correctly and appropriate realistic assumptions are made wherever required. The analyses successfully identify at least the 5 important driver variables (i.e. variables which are strong indicators of default).
Business-driven, type-driven and data-driven metrics are created for the important variables and utilised for analysis. The explanation for creating the derived metrics is mentioned and is reasonable.
Bivariate analysis is performed correctly and is able to identify the important combinations of driver variables. The combinations of variables are chosen such that they make business or analytical sense. 
The most useful insights are explained correctly in the comments.
Appropriate plots are created to present the results of the analysis. The choice of plots for respective cases is correct. The plots should clearly present the relevant insights and should be easy to read. The axes and important data points are labelled correctly.


Presentation and Recommendations (20%)
The presentation has a clear structure, is not too long, and explains the most important results concisely in simple language.
The recommendations to solve the problems are realistic, actionable and coherent with the analysis. 
The GitHub repository link contains a python file, presentation file and a README.md file. README.md file should describe the project briefly.
If any assumptions are made, they are stated clearly.


Conciseness and readability of the code (10%)
The code is concise and syntactically correct. Wherever appropriate, built-in functions and standard libraries are used instead of writing long code (if-else statements, for loops, etc.).
Custom functions are used to perform repetitive tasks.
The code is readable with appropriately named variables and detailed comments are written wherever necessary.




 